All right, welcome to class today.
In our lab, we're going to do
a pumps lab, so this will
also come from the chapter 8 material.
You might remember last
week we did pipeline
hydraulics, so this time
we'll do pump hydraulics.
And we want to take
a few minutes here to kind
of set up some of
the measurements that we'll be taking.
You see it best in the lab, but I think
it helps to see it
also in a concept diagram first.
So we've got a couple
of different sizes of pumps in
the lab, and we're going
to start with our large pump.
And we're going to measure data.
If you want to look at
the handout, data sheet 1 is
what we'll be talking about now.
We're going to measure
the pressure, for example,
the flow rate. It's
a variable frequency drive pump.
So we're going to change the speed on the
motor, and that will
change how the pump behaves.
And then we want
to determine the total dynamic
head and the power
at several different flow conditions.
So just by a quick review, for total
dynamic head, we're going
to calculate that as
the lift, plus we want to account for
the pressure at the outlet of the pump.
So pressure at the outlet,
and that'll be in PSI. We're
going to use TDH in
feet, so we'll need to convert.
And to do that, you
might remember using the unit weight
of water, so gamma. So
in this case, 1 over gamma.
In last week's lab,
we measured gamma, and it
turned out to be about 0.433 feet per PSI.
In this case, we're
starting with PSI per feet.
This time we're going to use
2.31, and that's feet per PSI.
Okay, so we'll measure P out in PSI.
The units will cancel, so we'll be in
feet. We'll add the lift, which is in
feet, and that will give us the TDH.
So we'll make a diagram
of how we'll collect that
data. This will be a
vertical cross-section of
our pumping system.
So it's really our sump
that's our underground storage reservoir.
And then we have our pump
with an impeller here and an inlet.
And so we have flow coming out
up here. It'll be our flow rate Q.
And we have a pressure transducer here,
or a pressure gauge, I should say.
And then one of the important factors
is the water level in the reservoir.
One of the things
that we'll notice is that
that water level changes
when we start the pump.
And this is interesting partly
because it's the same in groundwater.
When you first turn a pump on,
that water table starts
high and then lowers.
And it's not as much here, but it's
enough we want to pay attention to that.
So the initial water surface is
what we call the static water level.
And then we let the pump run for a
couple of minutes, and
then eventually it stops changing.